# Non-Orthogonal-Multiple-Access-with-Zero-forcing-Beamforming-in-a-Downlink-MIMO-System
MATLAB simulation code for dissertation project report "Non-Orthogonal-Multiple-Access-with-Zero-forcing-Beamforming-in-a-Downlink-MIMO-System"
Abstract
 In this Dissertation, a non-orthogonal multiple access (NOMA) based Beamforming (BF) system proposed by B.Kim et al. to improve the sum capacity is validated and discussed [1]. In a conventional BF system, Zero-Forcing(ZF) BF technique could be utilized to eliminate inter-beam interference. However, a single BF vector could only serve one user at a time. In a NOMA system, one antenna could serve two or more users, sharing both time and frequency domain resources. We combined these two wireless communication technologies to achieve sum capacity enhancement. Although implementing ZF-BF and successive interference cancellation (SIC) would totally remove the interference for the stronger user in a cluster when considering perfect channel state information (CSI) is received at the transmitter, the weak user would still suffer inner and inter-cluster interference. Therefore, a clustering and power allocation algorithm is also proposed to minimize the interference and improve sum capacity. Numerical result indicates that the proposed NOMA-BF system could achieve a better sum capacity than the conventional BF system. 
[1]     B. Kimy et al., "Non-orthogonal Multiple Access in a Downlink Multiuser Beamforming System," MILCOM 2013 - 2013 IEEE Military Communications Conference, 2013, pp. 1278-1283, doi: 10.1109/MILCOM.2013.218.
